Mankind first of all must eat, drink, and have shelter and clothing before he can pursue politics, art and religion etc. 
(Frederick Engels, 2018). Shelter is necessary to everyone and the provision of housing, 
as a means of solving one of the urban problems is one of the concerns of Town Planning. 
Housing as defined by the United Nations (UN) encompasses the housing unit and the entire ancillary services as well as community facilities that are necessary for human well-being. 
Housing, one of the physiological needs of man has become a global problem. Despite the emphasis being laid on housing provision by people and various Governments, this basic human need has continued to elude many (Onibokun, 2015, Car et al, 2015 and Abiodun, 2019). 
In developing countries such as Nigeria, governments have been making attempts at providing adequate housing to the low  income earners but studies have shown that this category of household are 'not well benefited (Sani, 2018). Indeed, in many developing countries, the provision of shelter particularly for the low-income group is grossly inadequate. 
Despite the shelter programmes, projects and other forms of government action taken in many countries, the shelter problem prevails with increasing dimensions. Government involvement in the shelter 
sector ranges from the provision or completed housing units to several forms of supportive measures. Factors responsible for these problems include:
1. Government in Nigeria prefers solving housing problems through direct mass housing construction for staff accommodation and recently through partnerships for sale to individuals and organizations. 

2. The cost of production of the houses by government is almost doubled that by an individual himself. 
3.United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Federal Government, has been making attempts to solve low-income housing problems through allocation of Site and Serviced plots and direct construction of mass houses, such projects allocated to the Low- income earners, end with land speculators and requires long and complicated bureaucratic procedures and costs before they can be developed, thereby forcing the Low-income earners to look outside the government land allocation system to the informal ones (unplanned areas). 

4. The housing process in Nigeria (legislation, planning, design, financing construction and maintenance) is unnecessarily too lengthy complicated and has lots of un-necessary bureaucratic bottlenecks. 

5. The government-constructed houses for low- income housing lack maintenance program me to provide adequate housing. 
6. The building code in Nigeria specifies the use of imported, modern building materials instead of locally produced materials that are more conducive to the environment. This contributes to the depletion of the country’s foreign reserves and high cost of housing supply. 

7. The houses built with the modern building materials, are neither adequate in terms of foreign standards nor bear any representation to our progressive cultural link to the past and environment.